---
layout: post
title: Putting the "L" in SOLID
---
In 1987, while I was busy dropping quarters in [Contra](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zGaCLZCH-do), Barbara Liskov was dropping her keynote address called *Data Abstraction and Hierarchy*. Her address contained concepts that have become known as the Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP). This principle governed ways to implement inheritance, polymorphism, and subclasses. Specifically:

> Liskov's notion of a behavioral subtype defines a notion of substitutability for objects; that is, if S is a subtype of T, then objects of type T in a program may be replaced with objects of type S without altering any of the desirable properties of that program (e.g. correctness). [-wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle#Principle)

The way I interpret this is that we may replace the superclass with the subclass and the program should still operate correctly. The classic example that is typically used is the rectangle vs. square where the square "IS A" subclass of the rectangle (it's just a special rectangle where the sides have equal length).

This violates the Liskov Substitution Principle when hypothetical methods like `setLength` and `setHeight` exist on rectangle (the superclass) and are inherited by square (the subclass). When implementing a square, we must make sure the properties `Length` and `Height` are equal which then violates an invariant of the base rectangle class. Its expected in the superclass that `Length` and `Width` can be independent of each other.

{% highlight ruby %}
def show

end
{% endhighlight %}
