--- 
layout: post 
title: Clients and commonalities
tags: ["clients"]
---

You might think that your job has nothing to do with sales, but as
a developer, there is always a client. That client may be an external one
who has recently hired your firm, an internal one such as a product
manager or business head, or a managerial one such as a team lead in the
engineering group. If there’s a client involved, guess what, there’s going
to be some sales involved. The textbook definition of sales is activity
directly related to the selling of goods or services. You might not be
selling widgets, steak knives, or vacuums, but you can be sure there are
day to day interactions where you are lobbying for refactoring time,
grooming the backlog, or trying a different approach to your project and
those all involve convincing or selling the idea to your client. 

A pretty wide spectrum of sales personas exist from the order taker to the
smooth talker, all the way to the subject matter expert. What matters the
most is how you are perceived by your client. My former career was in
investment banking. Banking has become a highly commoditized business.
There are only so many ways we move money from one pile into another and
all large bulge bracket banks pretty much have the same capabilities. One
key differentiator, however, are the relationships clients have with their
sales coverage at the various firms. Where business gets directed is based
on the strength of these relationships and building these ties are key
parts to your success. 

What sort of guidelines can one use to build deeper client relationships?
The term trusted advisor is often overused to categorize a durable
sales/client relationship, but as buzzword-y as it seems, it remains
a good way to differentiate between someone who is a facilitator versus
someone who’s thoughts are valued and sought out. Luckily, the steps
needed to work towards an advisory relationship are closely aligned with
8th Light’s own values and principles. 

Value the long term relationship versus the short term gain. Play the long
game. Most of the world doesn’t do it. As a developer, we might equate
this with not accruing technical debt or choosing to implement something
the right way rather than the fast way. No one is in a better position to
avoid this than you. If a client notices this long after you are gone,
you’ve taken a big step in building trust and integrity. As stated in 8th
Light’s principles, we do not tolerate preventable defects. 

Put the client’s interest first. Banking is wrought with conflicts of
interest. There are so many that we had an internal system just for
formally documenting potential conflicts in case any issues came up at
a later date. It’s almost impossible to imagine all the potential ways you
or the firm might be in conflict with a client. By following this rule you
avoid any ambiguity or complexity in the decision matrix. Many of the day
to day decisions we make as developers such as, how we choose to
prioritize our work, or what technology we choose, can benefit from
looking through this lens. 

Be genuinely interested in the client’s business and work to understand
their underlying drivers, not just their surface wants. They may have
asked you for something specific, but be intensely curious and try to dig
deeper. In banking, a client may ask for a set of numbers without giving
you a lot of detail. Sometimes it’s because there is material, non-public
information related to those numbers. Other times, where there isn’t, it
might be because the client has decided that you don’t need any further
information or that they don’t want to bog you down in the details. Asking
deeper questions gives you the opportunity to get to know your client’s
business better, show you are thorough and meticulous, and that you care
about the minor details. Luckily again, 8th Light values really
understanding the client’s business and guides us toward deeper
understanding. 

Be reliable. Do what you said you will do and be known for delivering. No
one likes to be let down. There might be a number of follow on decisions
being made based on a deliverable people are depending on you for. In
software, this could be a key component in a project’s highly coupled
Gantt chart.  In banking, it could be delivering on financial
infrastructure required for complex and timely transactions. Becoming
a reliable and consistent member of the team will help you move up the
food chain with the type of work you get. Many of the principles of agile
around communication, short iterations, and frequent deliverables help set
you up for success. I can’t think of a better framework for increased
reliability and trust. As always, try to underpromise and over-deliver.

Lastly, be genuinely passionate and enthusiastic. At higher levels, most
of the people you work with have gotten where they are because they love
what they do. Enthusiasm is infectious and a positive attitude will go
a long way to demonstrate your dedication to your work and your client. At
8th Light things like Waza give crafters space and time to scratch those
intellectual itches and allow us to discover and explore new areas.

Following these few principles everyday will enhance your client
relationships. It’s easy to think that we don’t have any sales
responsibilities, but if you think about it, we all have a bit. As you are
working your way to becoming a trusted advisor you’ll learn the difference
between selling and advising. One involves more persuasion and the other
more thoughtfulness. While I can’t think of two more different career
paths or day to day responsibilities, it’s easy to see how both benefit
from agile philosophies and a client centric approach. I hope to combine
a long history of relationship building in one industry with a new network
of people.
