---
layout: post
title: 18 Months in DeFi 
tags: ["General", "DeFi"]
---
### Oh 💩
There's nothing more sad than looking at your blog and realizing you haven't written anything in years. The second most sad thing is realizing you said you'd commit to writing more in 2020 only to find that it's already mid-May 🤦‍♂️. I won't dwell too much on my failure here. I'll just say, rather publicly, that I'm going to write more and that I'll spend less time worrying about how it looks and whether something should be a post (insert social platform), tweet, tumblr (if that's still a thing), or a blog entry ✍️. For simplicity sake, I'll concentrate on being more consistent on the blog. Technical writing and note taking will probably still be in the form of a [gist](https://gist.github.com/yaoandrew/345fc726d6117b7175f518a31bad70e7).
### Motivation
Why start writing now? Well, honestly, if I don't, it will never happen and recently I've had a few things I though I'd be interested in writing about. As we enter into our 3rd month of staying home, I've been catching up with some old colleagues that I seem to have neglected more than my blog. A common question I don't have a great answer to is

<p align="center">". . . what the #*@& have you been up to ?"</p>

I find myself sort of dodging the question and sounding WAY too [Californian](https://youtu.be/Tt-tG6ufH90?t=100) with my answer of "you know, some work, surfing, hiking, and coaching soccer." 🌴🏄‍♂️🥾 Mostly because the answer is, or at least I thought, kind of complex and too deep of a rabbit hole to dive into over Zoom. I've started to realize that most of this is a failure on my part and I should be able to articulate what I'm doing in appropriate levels of technical detail. Writing some thoughts down is a perfect way to get organized with a coherent answer without worrying about droning on and on 💤.

### Decentralized Finance
I work in a space called decentralized finance (DeFi, if we must have a short, catchy nickname). The not so modest goal of DeFi is often stated as creating a brand new monetary system on top of public blockchains 🧐. If you think about our existing monetary system and some of its components, someone is trying to create a version of this in DeFi. Within the industry there are varied [applications](https://www.finivi.com/ethereum-defi-platforms/) that focus on lending, exchanges, derivatives, prediction markets, and no loss games. As someone who comes from a traditional finance background, I came into the space as a real curmudgeon. I think about the regulatory moat that banks have surrounding their businesses coupled with a healthy dose of skepticism about the utility of blockchains and it is taking some real mental gymnastics for me to have an open mind.
<p align="center" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/0/02/Statler_and_Waldorf.jpg/220px-Statler_and_Waldorf.jpg">
</p>